---
layout: post
title: 2.5D game in Unreal Engine
---
# 2.5D game in Unreal Engine 5
---
<div class="intro">
This project is a 2.5D adventure-action game I made, using Unreal Engine 5. I’ve always wanted to create a third person type of game/simulation. Here I took the gameboy game Batman Vengeance as an inspiration and reference, where I wanted to imitate its mechanics and environments. The focus of this project was really on the functional aspect, where the goal was to make a (prototype) game that just runs well, feels snappy, that’s not buggy, utilizing both C++ and blueprints. Note that visually it isn’t the greatest looking or most cohesive thing you’ll see as these are assets I just collected, and not created myself. The visual aspect was a lower priority in this project.
</div>

**video**

## Technical
For this game I’ve implemented the following mechanisms like: 
Action mechanics: Movement, jumping, hanging/climbing, utilizing Unreal’s animation system.
AI: Utilizing Unreal’s AI behavior trees, creating blueprint AI constructs
Combat: Hand to hand combat for the Player and AI, projectile based AI.
platforms
Health system
Game management: managing lives/dead.


## Visuals
I haven’t created any of the visual and sound assets as that wasn’t the focus for me for this project, as those are not fields I practice. Of course I didn’t want it to be ugly either and still tried to make it look somewhat decent and like a cohesive something. Like the game Batman Vengeance, I went for a dark gritty city type of environment, taking place on the rooftops.

## Conclusion
Overall I’m pretty happy with the result, it does feel like a simple but fluid and snappy playing experience. It’s a relatively simple prototype as I wanted to keep the scope small, as my time to work on it was limited with a full time job where I’m already programming, in order to be able to finish it within a reasonable timeframe(2-3 months).
Eventually I actually want to remake some levels of the Batman Vengeance game, when I actually gain the 3D modeling skills to be able to create the assets myself for that (which was the original idea), but at least I have a base game now that I can use to build on top of now.

