---
layout: post
title: 2.5D game in Unreal Engine
categories: ["front_page", "graphics"]
---
# 2.5D game in Unreal Engine 5
---
<div class="post-date">
    <span>{{page.date | date: "%Y.%m.%d" }}</span>
</div>
<div class="intro">
This project is a 2.5D adventure-action game I made, using Unreal Engine 5. I’ve always wanted to create a third person type of game/simulation. Here I took the gameboy game Batman Vengeance as an inspiration and reference, where I wanted to imitate its mechanics and environments. The focus of this project was really on the functional aspect, where the goal was to make a (prototype) game that just runs well, feels snappy, that’s not buggy, utilizing both C++ and blueprints. Note that visually it isn’t the greatest looking or most cohesive thing you’ll see as these are assets I just collected, and not created myself. The visual aspect was a lower priority in this project.
</div>

<ul class="tags">
    <li>Unreal Engine 5</li>
    <li>c++</li>
    <li>Blueprints</li>
</ul>

I will start off by directly showing the game below:

<iframe width="736" height="413" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yMd48GvGSEs?si=V_EATtgkyqa0vo4S" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Technical
Technical components I developed for this game were:
<ul>
    <li><b>Movement mechanics:</b> The player is able to run(forward/back) and jump, which was straight forward to implement as Unreal already has some a template for human like entities that contain basic animations and movement for this. The player can also jump on obstacles to hang and climb on. This movement mechanic is custom and so took the most effort build in. This was made by using some line traces and vector math to indicate whether the obstacle was in range to hang/climb on. On the event where an obstacle could be climbed, movements modes and animations and thresholds were tuned according to create a smooth hang and climb mechanic.</li>
    <li><b>Enemy AI:</b> I've build 2 types of AI, one that can persue the player and that can do hand-to-hand combat, and a shooter based AI that's stationary and tries to damage the player with gunshots. Unreal has some AI systems based on behavior trees that I could use and build upon, and some basic vision that I didn't need to program myself. It just contains some simple tree to just persues or shoots the player if they have a sight on the Player. Most of the more detailed actions like combat I've handled in the blueprints. I purposefully kept as little logic as needed in those trees as I know logic here can get complex and buggy very fast.
    </li>
    <li><b>Hand-to-hand and projectile combat system: </b> For player I've created a basic punch and kick attack, and the hand combat based AI also has those attacks, but with different animations and sounds. The way damage works is that they have a sphere collider attached to their hand and feet, which turns on when they do their attack animations(in the 'damage' phase of the animation), and do damage to a target on hit. The AI with guns shoot projectiles that damages the player when taking a hit on their collider.
    <br/>
    The player can avoid attacks by ducking under punches, or by moving away. They can avoid projectiles by jumping over them, or ducking under it if there is enough space.
    </li>
    <li><b>Health and damage system: </b>
    The player and AIs are given healthpoints, and can take damage and die with using the above combat system. The player just has an additional way of taking damage where he can fall off a building, which respawns him to the last checkpoint with fall damage taken (or kills him if the fall damage take his HP to 0).
    </li>
    <li><b>Game management: </b> To complete the game overall sound effects, sound levels. Also points a simple system for checkpoints and level endpoints.</li>
</ul>

### Use of events
To better structure the game I've also used custom delegate events, which any entity can pick to be notified if the event is relevant to them. For example a "playerDied" event, which all AIs are subscribed to and are notified about when it happens and the event is fired off. It has also been handy in updating all healthbar UI's for when it's entity takes damage.

## Visuals
I didn't created the visual and sound assets as that wasn’t the focus for me for this project, as those are not areas I practice. Of course I didn’t want it to be ugly either and still tried to make it look somewhat decent and a cohesive game. Like the game Batman Vengeance, I went for a dark gritty city type of environment, taking place on the rooftops.

## Conclusion
Overall I’m pretty happy with the result, it is simple but a fluid playing experience. It’s a relatively simple prototype as I wanted to keep the scope small, as my time to work on it was limited with a full time job where I’m already programming.
<br/>
Eventually I actually want to remake some levels of the Batman Vengeance game as I originally intended, but this will be when I actually gain the 3D modeling skills to be able to create the assets myself for that. But at least I have a proper base game now that I can to build on top of now for that. For any question feel to contact me.
